---
title: Eid Mubarak!
author: Ilm Seeker
type: post
date: 2006-10-20T20:17:21+00:00
excerpt: "Eid Mubarak! Maintain the taqwa built up over Ramadan. Continue good deeds, stay patient and refrain from sins. Never too late to earn Allah's mercy."
url: /2006/eid-mubarak-2006/
views:
  - 2
podPressPostSpecific:
  - 'a:6:{s:15:"itunes:subtitle";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:14:"itunes:summary";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:15:"itunes:keywords";s:17:"##WordPressCats##";s:13:"itunes:author";s:10:"##Global##";s:15:"itunes:explicit";s:7:"Default";s:12:"itunes:block";s:7:"Default";}'
categories:
  - Islam
  - Sawm
  - Tazkiyyah

---
Just like we have [different starting dates for Ramadan][1], we have different Eid dates.

And you know what? That&#8217;s ok. Why? Because it&#8217;s _all_ based on legitimate difference of opinion. Not some beardy guy making stuff up because he feels like it.

So when &#8216;Eid rolls around, enjoy it, and don&#8217;t hate on other people for when they celebrate. _That&#8217;s_ messed up.

By the way&#8211;when &#8216;Eid rolls around, remember this: you just fasted for 30 days straight, give or take a day. You prayed. You abstained from sins, from backbiting, from looking a second time. <span class="gem">Don&#8217;t stop doing that! That is taqwa of Allah&#8211;the real stuff&#8211;that you built up in yourself, fast by fast, day by day, and deed by deed.</span> Nurture it. Improve it. Maintain it, so it doesn&#8217;t degenerate.

So if you picked up some good deeds&#8211;you started praying, you prayed Qiyam al-Layl, you decided to wear hijab&#8211;even if you fell down every now and then, or more often then not&#8211;keep doing those inshallah. That&#8217;s what Ramadan is _for_, it&#8217;s _supposed_ to improve your life.

And if you off-loaded some bad deeds&#8211;you stopped smoking, you managed not to argue, you stayed cool even when someone yelled at you&#8211;even if you fell down every now and then, or more often then not&#8211;alhamdulillah, you are now **much closer to success** in the Hereafter then you were before. May Allah keep all of us strong after Ramadan (ameen!)

And if you feel _exactly the same as before Ramadan_, I have horrifying hadith to share with you. Read:

> Abu Hurayrah reported that the Messenger of Allah (صلي الله عليه وسلم) ascended the pulpit and said: Ameen, Ameen, Ameen. Someone said to him, &#8220;O Messenger of Allah, why did you do that?&#8221; He said, &#8220;Jibreel said to me, **&#8216;May Allah curse a person who let Ramadan elapse without having his sins forgiven,** say Ameen,&#8217; and **I (Prophet Muhammad) said, &#8216;Ameen.&#8217;** Then he said, &#8216;May Allah curse the one who lives to see his parents grow old, one or both of them, but he does not enter Paradise, say Ameen,&#8217; and I said, &#8216;Ameen.&#8217; Then he said, &#8216;May Allah curse the one in whose presence you (the Prophet) are mentioned and he does not send blessings upon you, say Ameen,&#8217; and I said, &#8216;Ameen.'&#8221; [Ibn Khuzaymah, At-Tirmidhi, Ahmad and Ibn Hibban]

<span class="gem">It&#8217;s never too late to try your best!</span> If there remains a week, a day, or even _an hour_ in Ramadan, then turn to Allah (سبحانه وتعالى) and make the _absolute best_ of the time you have left.

May Allah (سبحانه وتعالى) allow us all to enter into His mercy in this blessed month of Ramadan and in all the other Ramadans we live to see, ameen.

 [1]: /moonsighting-or-moonfighting/