---
title: Aim for 110%
author: Ilm Seeker
type: post
date: 2006-02-28T02:32:54+00:00
excerpt: 'To reach your goals, aim higher then you need.  If you fail, you still succeed beyond your requirements.  Aim for 110% in all things.  An archer metaphor.'
url: /2006/aim-for-110/
views:
  - 1
podPressPostSpecific:
  - 'a:6:{s:15:"itunes:subtitle";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:14:"itunes:summary";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:15:"itunes:keywords";s:17:"##WordPressCats##";s:13:"itunes:author";s:10:"##Global##";s:15:"itunes:explicit";s:2:"No";s:12:"itunes:block";s:2:"No";}'
categories:
  - Gems
  - Tazkiyyah

---
All of us, and especially those of us in educational institutes, run into tests and projects and assignments. And often&#8211;too often&#8211;we aim merely for a pass. A 60% or 50%, and we&#8217;re good to go.

But, imagine if you will, an archer shooting at a target. High above his head is 100%. Somewhere level with him is 50%&#8211;a pass. And below, lesser marks.

He draws back his arrow. He aims. 50%? No problem! He fires. _Woosh!_ It flies forward forward forward forward, then downward slightly. Not quite right. 45%.

That&#8217;s right! You failed the test&#8211;you got a 45%. You need to drop the course, your parents are going to be upset, &#8230;

What if the archer aimed a little higher? Maybe he aimed for 75%&#8211;but he missed. Where did the arrow land? Maybe 55%. Maybe 65%. Maybe 70%.

Aim high, and if you miss, you land higher then you needed to. Are you aiming for a squeaky-narrow entrance into Jannah, or will you be among those who enter without reckoning? May Allah help us all be of those who enter without reckoning.

Similarly, if you want to be the best&#8211;100% out of 100%&#8211;you need to aim higher. You need to aim for 110%. And if you miss, so what? 107% is still pretty good alhamdullilah.

Take it to heart, and implement it in your lives, and inshAllah you&#8217;ll see a difference. And _don&#8217;t_ be influenced by those who just aim to pass&#8211;your goals are higher then that. Influence _them_, and compete for the best grade.

<div id="referencesTitle">
  References
</div>

<p class="reference">
  Muhammad Alshareef. Lecture. AlMaghrib. <a href="/breach-of-covenant/">Breach of Covenant</a>. University of Toronto, Toronto. May 2005.
</p>