---
title: Template Page
author: Ilm Seeker
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=234
categories:
  - General

---
A comment about the exceprt and title: these excerpt is used inside a meta tag, i.e. for search-engines. The small description of a website most search engines have, under the title for the sites they find, is **the exact content in the optional excerpt.** So chose your words well (character limit is 150 characters). In particular, use words in that section that you use throughout your article (this leads to a higher search-engine rank, generally).

The title is also the URL. So an entry titled &#8220;Ramadan: The Excuse-Killer&#8221; becomes [www.ilmfruits.com/ramadan-the-excuse-killer][1]. Again, chose wisely (short is better then long), and pick words that **appear frequently in the body** if possible. (You can always manually change the URL-ness, by changing the Post Slug, located on the right of the Edit Post page.)

Finally, with categories, put the entries in a category and all its parents. So if you choose &#8220;Tajweed&#8221;, also place it in Arabic. Choose as many as you like, the ones that fit. (Check the Manage Categories page to see their descriptions.)

One last point&#8211;when you link other entries, don&#8217;t link them as www.ilmfruits.com/some-entry. Link them as _just_ /some-entry/. This prevents pingback, that is, us pinging ourselves and telling ourselves we&#8217;ved linked to ourselves! (It&#8217;s complicated, ask if you want details inshallah&#8211;WordPress automatically notifies a lot of places when you update, and they automatically quote where they&#8217;ve linked you.)

Also, in terms of copyrights and stuff, all authors hold all the rights to their work &#8212; you only grant Ilm Fruits a temporary, revokable right to display their work. (And our editors get the right to edit your work, too, for style and consistentcy and stuff.)

Some types of entries (you can consider them templates)

  * [Perfect Happiness Doesn&#8217;t Exist][2] (short entry, like a gem (we love these))
  * [Signing on Behalf of Allah][3] (longer entry (we try to avoid these))
  * [The Fruits of Eman (3)][4] (multi-entry series)
  * [Rules of Engagement][5] (index that helps organize links)

The rest of page demonstrates some of the uses of CSS styles on the website.

Some Arabic (Qur&#8217;an), unstyled:

لاَّ تُدْرِكُهُ الأَبْصَارُ وَهُوَ يُدْرِكُ الأَبْصَارَ وَهُوَ اللَّطِيفُ **الْخَبِيرُ**

Some Arabic (Qur&#8217;an), class = arabic:

<div class="arabic">
  لاَّ تُدْرِكُهُ الأَبْصَارُ وَهُوَ يُدْرِكُ الأَبْصَارَ وَهُوَ اللَّطِيفُ <strong>الْخَبِي</strong>
</div>

Some Arabic (Qur&#8217;an), in a div tag (class = quran): (note that bolded items are automatically red (colour is changable).

<div class="quran">
  لاَّ تُدْرِكُهُ الأَبْصَارُ وَهُوَ يُدْرِكُ الأَبْصَارَ وَهُوَ اللَّطِيفُ <strong>الْخَبِيرُ</strong>
</div>

Blockquotes are useful when you have really large quotes. Here&#8217;s an example, the blockquote tag:

> Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit. Praesent id felis vitae elit fringilla ultrices. Sed rhoncus nisl in elit. Praesent vel purus. Sed aliquet lacus id risus. Aenean erat magna, lacinia sit amet, dictum tempus, mollis in, erat. Nam sapien. Fusce venenatis cursus turpis. Nam nulla metus, aliquet id, laoreet a, semper at, justo. Donec eu nisl. Maecenas pede. Nam nisi massa, adipiscing non, porttitor at, feugiat eget, elit. Vivamus vestibulum, mi et luctus varius, turpis massa laoreet purus, vel ultricies turpis mauris sit amet massa. Donec ac leo vitae eros vestibulum interdum. Suspendisse potenti. Fusce auctor. Morbi egestas diam id purus.

Note that it&#8217;s centered.

The dfn tag is used to have popovers for definitions. It&#8217;s styled so it&#8217;s underlined. Here&#8217;s the definition for <dfn title="A small, rodent-like rodent with sharp, pointy teeth and long hair.">hamster.</dfn>

You can also indicate something is a foreign word, by putting it in a span tag (class = foreignWords); this way, if we want to change the look of ALL foreign words later, we change one line (css file). This method is deprecated, use dfn tag instead inshaAllah.

There&#8217;s also a <span class="gem">gem class</span>, use it inshaAllah; presently it italicizes, bolds, and re-colours, but again, as with above, you can easily change site-wide gem apperances.

There&#8217;s also a <span class="random">random class, I forget what it&#8217;s for. Used in spans inshaAllah.</span>

You can also have mini-titles; helpful to break things up. Div tag, class = miniTitle

<div class="miniTitle">
  First Title
</div>

First body.

<div class="miniTitle">
  Second Title
</div>

Second body. (For a sample, search the blog for Fruits of Eman.)

If you want a horizontal rule, put it in a div&#8211;otherwise, WordPress takes out P tags and it goes crazy.

Normal

* * *Rest of text.Div:</p> 

<div>
  <hr />
</div>

Text is fine.

And finally, all these styles are changable, and more styles are creatable, so if that&#8217;s what you want, let me know inshaAllah. Jazakumullahu khayr.

The following is references: the word &#8220;References&#8221; in a div tag (id = referencesTitle), and lots of references in p tags (class = reference). Used at the bottom of each post.

<div id="referencesTitle">
  References
</div>

<p class="reference">
  (1) Khan, Lena. “AL-KHABIR (الْخَبِ) = THE AWARE.” QWOTD: Qur’anic Word of the Day. 21 July 2006. 22 July 2006 <<a href="http://groups.yahoo.com/group/QWOTD">http://groups.yahoo.com/group/QWOTD</a>>.
</p>

 [1]: /ramadan-the-excuse-killer/
 [2]: /perfect-happiness-doesnt-exist/
 [3]: /signing-on-behalf-of-allah/
 [4]: /the-fruits-of-eman-3/
 [5]: /rules-of-engagement/