---
title: A Wife
author: Ilm Seeker
type: post
date: 2006-07-08T02:17:53+00:00
excerpt: Article by Shaykh Abdullah Adhami on wives (and spouses). Tips from the sunnah--small actions that help maintain a strong and healthy marital bond.
url: /2006/a-wife/
filosofo_ec_comment_enrollees:
  - 'a:2:{i:0;s:0:"";i:15;i:15;}'
views:
  - 2
podPressPostSpecific:
  - 'a:6:{s:15:"itunes:subtitle";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:14:"itunes:summary";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:15:"itunes:keywords";s:17:"##WordPressCats##";s:13:"itunes:author";s:10:"##Global##";s:15:"itunes:explicit";s:2:"No";s:12:"itunes:block";s:2:"No";}'
categories:
  - Articles
  - Islam
  - Marriage
  - Tazkiyyah

---
The following is a beautiful little speech by Shaykh Abdullah Adhami, entitled &#8220;A Wife&#8221;. Read it inshallah ta&#8217;ala and benefit from it. Props to [Beautiful Islam][1] for the [original][2].

<div>
  <hr />
</div>

By getting married you are not just getting a wife, you are getting your whole world. From now until the rest of your days your wife will be your partner, your companion, and your best friend.She will share your moments, your days, and your years. She will share your joys and sorrows, your successes and failures, your dreams and your fears. When you are ill, she will take the best care of you; when you need help, she will do all she can for you.When you have a secret, she will keep it. When you need advice, she will give you the best advice. She will always be with you: when you wake up in the morning the first thing your eyes will see will be hers; during the day, she will be with you, if for a moment she is not with you by her physical body, she will be thinking of you, praying for you with all her heart, mind, and soul; when you go to sleep at night, the last thing your eyes will see will be her; and when you are asleep you will still see her in your dreams. In short, she will be your whole world and you will be her whole world.The best description that I personally have ever read describing the closeness of the spouses to each other is the Qur&#8217;anic verse which says: &#8220;they are your garments and you are their garments&#8221; [[Surah Al-Baqarah][3], verse 187]<sup>1</sup>.

Indeed, spouses are like garments to each other because they provide one another with the protection, the comfort, the cover, the support, and the adornment that garments provide to humans. Just imagine a journey in the winter of Alaska without garments! Our spouses provide us with the same level of comfort, protection, cover, and support in the journey of our lives on this earth as garments would do in the Alaskan journey.The relationship between the spouses is the most amazing of all human relations: the amount of love and affection, intimacy and closeness, mercy and compassion, peace and tranquillity that fills the hearts of the spouses is simply inexplicable. The only rational explanation for these most amazing of all human feelings is that: it is an act of Allah (سبحانه وتعالى), &#8220;And Allah has made for you Mates (and Companions) of your own nature &#8230;&#8221; [[Surah Al-Nahl][4], verse 72]<sup>1</sup>

Only our Almighty Allah (سبحانه وتعالى) in His Infinite Power, Boundless Mercy, and Great Wisdom can create and ingrain these amazing and blessed feelings in the hearts of the spouses. In fact Allah (سبحانه وتعالى) is reminding those who search for His signs in the universe that these feelings in the hearts of the spouses are among the signs that should guide humans to His existence as He says in the Qur&#8217;an, &#8220;And among His signs is this, that He created for you mates from among yourselves that you may dwell in tranquillity with them and He has put love and mercy between your hearts: verily in that are signs for those who reflect.&#8221; [[Surah Al-Rum][5],verse 21]<sup>1</sup>

But Allah (سبحانه وتعالى) knows that the human heart is not a static entity, it is sometimes weak and at times dynamic. Feelings can and do change with time. Love may wither and fade away. The marital bond might weaken if not properly cared for. Happiness in marriage cannot be taken for granted; continuous happiness requires constant giving from both sides. For the tree of marital love to remain alive and keep growing, the soil has to be sustained, maintained, watered and nurtured.

Remember that our Prophet Muhammad (صلي الله عليه وسلم) had found the time to go out to the desert and race with his wife Aisha (رضي الله عنها). She out ran him but later after she had gained some weight, he out ran her.

Remember that the Prophet (صلي الله عليه وسلم) took his wife to watch the young Ethiopians playing and dancing their folk dances. The show of emotions is necessary to keep the marital bond away from rusting and disintegrating.

Remember that you will be rewarded by Allah (سبحانه وتعالى) for any emotions you show to your wife as the Prophet (صلي الله عليه وسلم) said &#8220;one would be rewarded for anything that he does seeking the pleasure of Allah, even the food that he puts in the mouth of his wife.&#8221;

Never underestimate the importance of seemingly little things as putting food in your wife&#8217;s mouth, opening the car&#8217;s door for her, etc. Remember that the Prophet (صلي الله عليه وسلم) used to extend his knee to his wife to assist her up to ride the camel.

Try to always find some time for both of you to pray together. Strengthening the bond between you and Allah (سبحانه وتعالى) is the best guarantee that your own marital bond would always remain strong. Having peace with Allah (سبحانه وتعالى) will always result in having more peace at home.

Remember that the Prophet (صلي الله عليه وسلم) gave glad tidings for those couples who wake up at night to pray together. The Prophet (صلي الله عليه وسلم) even urged the spouse who rises up first to wake the other spouse up even by sprinkling cold water on his/her face.

Always try your best to be good to your wife by words and by deeds. Talk to her, smile to her, seek her advice, ask for her opinion, spend quality time with her and always remember that the Prophet (صلي الله عليه وسلم) said &#8220;the best of you are those who are best to their wives.&#8221;

Finally, it is common that spouses vow to love and honor their spouses until death do them part. I do believe that this vow is good or even great, but not enough! It is not enough that you love your wife. You have to love what she loves as well. Her family, her loved ones must also become your loved ones. Don&#8217;t be like my colleague who was unhappy about his wife&#8217;s parents coming to visit for few weeks. He candidly said to her &#8220;I don&#8217;t like your parents.&#8221; Naturally, she looked at him straight in the eye and said &#8221; I don&#8217;t like yours either!&#8221; Also, it is not enough that you love her until death do you part. Love should never end and we do believe there is life after death where those who did righteousness in this world will be joined by their spouses [[Surah Al-Zukhruf][6], verse 70]<sup>1</sup> and offspring.

The best example in this regard is the Prophet (صلي الله عليه وسلم) whose love for Khadija, his wife of 25 years extended to include all those she loved and continued even after her death. It was many years after her death and he never forgot her and whenever a goat was slaughtered in his house he would send portions of it to Khadija&#8217;s family and friends and whenever he felt that the visitor at the door might be Khadija&#8217;s sister Hala, he would pray saying &#8220;O Allah, let it be Hala.&#8221;

<div>
  <hr />
</div>

<div id="referencesTitle">
  References
</div>

<p class="reference">
  (1) Khan, Muhsin, trans. “Quranic Realm.” <u>Islamic Network</u>. 12 May 2006 <<a href="http://quran.islamicnetwork.com/">http://quran.islamicnetwork.com/</a>>.
</p>

<p class="reference">
  (2) Adhami, Abdullah. &#8220;A Wife.&#8221; <u>Beautiful Islam</u>. 7 July 2006 <<a href="http://www.beautifulislam.net/marriage/a_wife.htm">http://www.beautifulislam.net/marriage/a_wife.htm</a>>.
</p>

 [1]: http://www.beautifulislam.net/
 [2]: http://www.beautifulislam.net/marriage/a_wife.htm
 [3]: http://www.oneummah.net/quran/02.htm
 [4]: http://www.oneummah.net/quran/16.htm
 [5]: http://www.oneummah.net/quran/30.htm
 [6]: http://www.oneummah.net/quran/43.htm