---
title: Muslims and Clean Underwear
author: Ibn al-Khattab
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=315
categories:
  - General

---
Muslims shouldn&#8217;t have stained, yellow, brown underwear.

It is from our deen to have ihsaan (excellence) in everything we do, including cleanliness. Unfortunately, some people think that because Muslim men grow a beard, that this means they are not clean. Infact, they would be surprised to know that Muslims shave their pubic hair and are the most clean of people. Sometimes we are confused with Sikhs who are not permitted to cut any of their hair.

Some of the things I have heard:

  * &#8220;When was the last time you washed your beard? Don&#8217;t you get stuff in it&#8221; 
  * (He did not realize that we do wudoo 5 times a day and part of wudoo includes washing the beard) 
  * &#8220;Muslim men in the past 1400 years ago didn&#8217;t shave their beard because they didn&#8217;t have proper razors and it was difficult.&#8221; 
  * (Infact this is not true, imagine what this person would think if he realized Muslims shave their other body parts without proper razors)

We are clean, and our underwear does not get stained, BECAUSE

After every stool and urine we wash ourselves. That is ibadah.

Truly Allah loves those who turn [to Him] in repentance, and He loves those who keep themselves in purity. (2:222)

Allah praised the people of Quba, who used to wash themselves with water.<sup><a href="#1">1</a></sup>

The Prophet once passed by two graves and said, &#8220;They (the deceased persons in those graves) are being tortured not for a great thing to avoid.&#8221; And then added, &#8220;Yes, (they are being punished for a big sin), for one of them used to go about with calumnies while the other never saved himself from being soiled with his urine.&#8221; (Ibn Abbas added): Then he took a green leaf of a date-palm) and split it into two pieces and fixed one piece on each grave and said, &#8220;May their punishment be abated till these (two pieces) get dry.&#8221; (Sahih al Bukhari, &#8220;Book of Funerals&#8221;, Hadith 1281)

This is in difference to the kafir, who does not infact clean himself, and if you ever see their underwear, you will see something dirty and yellow.

links: [http://al-baz.com/shaikhabdalqadir/Books\_and\_Text\_of\_Wisdom/Al-Ghunya\_li-Talibi\_Tariq\_al-H/al-Ghunya\_Three\_Virtues/al-Ghunya\_-\_Virtue\_of\_Tawba/al-ghunya\_-\_virtue\_of_tawba.html][1]

_<font color="#5b5b00">In it [in Quba&#8217;] there are men who love to purify themselves, and Allah loves those who purfy themselves. (9:108)<br /> fi-hi rijalun yuhibbuna an yatatahharu wa &#8216;llahu yuhibbu &#8216;l-muttahirin.</font>_

 [1]: http://al-baz.com/shaikhabdalqadir/Books_and_Text_of_Wisdom/Al-Ghunya_li-Talibi_Tariq_al-H/al-Ghunya_Three_Virtues/al-Ghunya_-_Virtue_of_Tawba/al-ghunya_-_virtue_of_tawba.html