---
title: Never ask Anyone for Anything
author: Ibn al-Khattab
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
excerpt: 'Not asking anyone for anything is a part of eman.  It is from the highest parts of eman and some of the most difficult things to implement.'
draft: true
url: /?p=374
categories:
  - Akhlaaq
  - General
  - Islam

---
Bismillah.

This article is about depending 100% only on Allah. That is the highest form of tawheed.

That is from the highest part of eman and tawheed, to _not_ depend on anyone other than Allah. That means never asking except from Allah, even if it very difficult to do so.

Note, it is **not** <dfn title="forbidden">haram</dfn> to ask help from others, unless it is accompanied by incorrect belief&#8211;it is not the doctor that cures us, he is only acting by the permission of Allah.

Let us all strive towards this highest form of eman, that is, complete dependence only on Allah, _Subhanahu wa ta&#8217;ala_. It might take years in order to implement this, because of our years of dependence on asking our family members or friends &#8211; our wife, or our mom, or our brother to pick this up for us, to get that for us, to hold the door for us, etc.. But let us at the least strive towards this goal.

<p class="stylish">
  <strong>Thawban pledges not to ask anyone for anything</strong>
</p>

Al-Tabarani relates on the authority of Abu Umamah: 

> “The Prophet, peace be upon him, asked us who was willing to give him a pledge. Thawban, the Prophet’s servant, requested the Prophet, peace be upon him, to accept his pledge.
> 
> The Prophet, peace be upon him, said to him: ‘_You pledge not to ask anyone anything_.’
> 
> Thawban asked him what reward would a person get for honoring such a pledge, and the Prophet, peace be upon him, answered: ‘**Paradise.**’
> 
> I saw Thawban in Makkah when it was overcrowded with people. He was on his mount when it happened that his whip fell from his hand over someone’s shoulder. The man handed him the whip back, but he would not take it from him until he dismounted to pick it up himself.” (Also related in a shorter version by Ahmad and Al-Nassai) 

<p class="stylish">
  <strong>Umar gives an oath never to ask anything from anyone</strong>
</p>

> Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam from &#8216;Ata&#8217; ibn Yasar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, sent a gift to &#8216;Umar ibn al-Khattab and &#8216;Umar returned it. The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, asked, &#8220;Why did you return it?&#8221; He replied, &#8220;Messenger of Allah, _didn&#8217;t you tell us that it is better for us not to take anything from anyone?_&#8221; The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, &#8220;That is _by asking_. Provision which Allah gives you is not the same as asking.&#8221; &#8216;Umar ibn al-Khattab said, &#8220;By the One in whose hand my self is, _I will not ask anything from anyone_, and anything that comes to me without my asking for it, I will accept.&#8221;
> 
> [Bukhari and Muslim]