---
title: The seeker of truth
author: Ibn al-Khattab
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=445
categories:
  - General

---
Salman Al Farsi, RadiAllahu Anh, was an example of someone who searched for the truth, wherever it was, and sacrificed everything for the truth.

He left his noble and high position of the keeper of the fire, son of the richest man in his city, to study and learn about the Christian religion. He left his town and his family and his culture and his home to travel to Syria. He patiently endured an evil bishop who the people thought was righteous, and was given a better more pious bishop to study under. He then continued from bishop to bishop to study the deen, the best religion he had found so far. He then learned from his teacher (who was old and dying) that there was nobody else on the same path, but that he knew of a Prophet that was coming, and that there were three signs he would know of this Prophet, who would come from the land of the arabs. So Salman left for the land of the arabs and offered these bedouins all his wealth in exchange for helping him through this difficult journey. They cheated him and sold him as a slave when they reached the town. But as a slave of a jew, he heard them talking about the Prophet, and almost fell from the tree he was working on. He then snuck out at night to meet this so called Prophet and test him with the signs that he knew about. When he asked the Prophet (SAWS) if he would eat some food and that it was charity, and the Prophet gave it to his companions but did not eat from it. The next day he again came but gave him food as a gift, and the Prophet ate it. Lastly, he peeked under the Prophet&#8217;s shirt to see the seal of the Prophethood on his back, and when he saw it, he could not contain himself and hugged the Prophet, and then told him his story.

He had to struggle for years to pay off his master to free himself, a huge sum of money, three hundred palm trees plus a large amount of gold, but with the help of Allah he did it.

And later in his life, he became the governor of the capital of Persia. Allahu Akbar, How Allah shows his signs for those who ponder.

Links:
  
http://www.anwary-islam.com/companion/s_salman-al-farsi.htm