---
title: You Testified … No Excuses
author: Abd al-Ahad
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
excerpt: 'all creation has testified that Allah is their Lord. All creation is created upon a fitrah - the inclination to worship God alone, the innate consciousness of whats right and wrong. All creation took part in a covenant (meethaq) with Allah before birth.'
draft: true
url: /?p=435
categories:
  - Aqeeda
  - Islam
  - Tafseer

---
Allah (سبحانه وتعال) says in the Qur&#8217;an:

<p class="MsoNormal">
  <strong><span>“</span>And (remember) when your Lord brought forth from the Children of Adam, from their loins, their seed (or from Adam&#8217;s loin his offspring) and made them testify as to themselves (saying): ‘Am I not your Lord?’ They said: ‘Yes! We testify,’ lest you should say on the Day of Resurrection: ‘Verily, we have been unaware of this.’”</strong> [Surah al-Araaf V.172]
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  This ayat brings to the surface two pivotal constructs: <em>fitrah</em> and <em>meethaq</em>
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  <strong>Fitrah </strong>is known as an innate consciousness; it tells us the basis of right and wrong; its an inclination that all of mankind have within their hearts to worship God alone
</p>

**Meethaq** is known as the covenant that Allah (سبحانه وتعال) took from all of mankind as stated in the above ayat.

Ibn Abbas (رضي الله عنه) reported that the Prophet (صلي الله عليه وسلم) related that, **“When Allah Subhana huwa ta&#8217;ala created Adam alayhi salam, He took a covenant from him in a place called Na’man on the day of Arafah. Then He extracted from him all of his descendants that would be born until the end of the world, generation after generation, and spread them out in front of Him in order to take a covenant from them also.**

**He spoke to them face to face saying: ‘Am I not your Lord?’ and they all replied, ‘Yes, we testify to it.’ Allah then explained why He had all of mankind bear witness that He was their Creator and only true God worthy of worship. He said, ‘That was in case you (mankind) should say on the Day of Resurrection, ‘Surely we were unaware of all this. We had no idea that You, Allah , were our God. No one told us that we were supposed to worship You alone.” Allah went on to explain that it was also in case some people would say: ‘It was our ancestors who made partners (with Allah) and we are only their descendants; will you then destroy us for what those liars did?&#8221;**

<p class="MsoNormal">
  Allah (سبحانه وتعال) tells us very clearly that we as human beings, as a creation of Allah (سبحانه وتعال), have testified against ourselves that there is no deity worthy of worship except Allah and Allah alone.
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  Man is created with this inclination of God, he is created knowing that Allah is his Rabb (fitrah)<em>, </em>yet he deprives <em>himself</em> of this blessing. He chooses to follow his desires knowing very well the reality of the situation; he chooses to indulge himself in this life and its adornments knowing deep down inside the truth. For him, there will be no excuse on the Day where he will come face to face with his Creator, the same Creator that he shunned away throughout his entire trial (life). He never chose to except his inclination, rather he let them pass by over and over again.
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  Allah (سبحانه وتعال) has created all of mankind upon this fitrah as said in the Qur&#8217;an:
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  <strong>“So set you (O Muhammad sallalahu alayhi wasalam) your face towards the religion of pure Islamic Monotheism Hanifa (worship none but Allah Alone) Allah&#8217;s Fitrah (i.e. Allah&#8217;s Islamic Monotheism), with which He has created mankind. No change let there be in Khalq­illah (i.e. the Religion of Allah Islamic Monotheism), that is the straight religion, but most of men know not”</strong> [Surah ar-Room V.30] [Tafsir At­Tabari, Vol 21, Page 41]
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  Undoubtedly, all of creation has been created submissive to His Rabb [see Tawhid ar-Rububiyyah]. The same holds true for a child; if he were left alone with nothing and no one, if he were left innocent, he would grow up aware of Allah (سبحانه وتعال) in His Oneness. Nonetheless, every person is a product of his/her environment and thus the inclination provided by the fitrah becomes tainted, it becomes rusted.
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  Abu Hurayrah (رضي الله عنه) narrates that the Prophet (صلي الله عليه وسلم) said: <strong>“Every child is born upon the <em>fitrah</em>, it is only his parents who turn him into a Jew, a Christian or a Zorastrian. Just as animals are born having full bodies, do you see any of them having a cutoff nose when they are born?”</strong> [Sahih Muslim, Sahih Bukhari]
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  And so, we see that Allah (سبحانه وتعال) creates only with perfection as He is al-Khaliq (the Creator), al-Bari (the Maker) and He is al-Musawwir (the Bestower of Form, the Shaper). He, Subhana, created mankind upon this perfection, upon this inclination towards the Straight Path. However, the condition of man is that he is lost as Allah (سبحانه وتعال) says:
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  <strong>&#8220;By The Time. Verily! Man is in loss.&#8221;</strong> [Al-Asr, V.1-2]
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  Man is in loss and therefore chooses himself out of his desires to reject the calling, to reject the inclination of there being only one deity worthy of worship.
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  Ever wonder why, when people are in serious anguish or in a very difficult predicament the first thing they do is call out to God? Its not a coincidence. <strong>Think about it. </strong>
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  May Allah (سبحانه وتعال) guide us upon the Straight Path and help us to follow the perfect example of a man upon the fitrah, Prophet Muhammad (صلي الله عليه وسلم).
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  <strong>References</strong>
</p>

Yasir Qadhi. Lecture. AlMaghrib. [Light of Guidance][1]. University of Toronto, Toronto. March 2006.

Khan, Muhsin, trans. “Quranic Realm.” <u>Islamic Network</u>. 7 June 2007 <[www.searchquran.net][2]>.

<p class="MsoNormal">
  Tafseer ibn Kathir. &#8216;The Covenant taken from the Descendants of Adam&#8217;. <<a href="http://www.abdurrahman.org/qurantafseer/ibnkathir/index.html">http://www.abdurrahman.org/qurantafseer/ibnkathir/index.html</a>>
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  &nbsp;
</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">
  &nbsp;
</p>

 [1]: http://www.ilmfruits.com/light-of-guidance
 [2]: http://www.searchquran.net