---
title: Mubaalagah
author: AmatulWadood
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=542
podPressPostSpecific:
  - 'a:6:{s:15:"itunes:subtitle";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:14:"itunes:summary";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:15:"itunes:keywords";s:17:"##WordPressCats##";s:13:"itunes:author";s:10:"##Global##";s:15:"itunes:explicit";s:7:"Default";s:12:"itunes:block";s:7:"Default";}'
categories:
  - Arabic
  - Arabic Grammar
  - Gems

---
Bismillah

Allah ta&#8217;ala says in Surah Zukhruf ayah 3:

إِنَّا جَعَلْنَاهُ <font color="#ff0000">قُرْآنًا عَرَبِيًّا</font> لَّعَلَّكُمْ تَعْقِلُونَ

&#8220;We verily, have made it a Quran in **<font color="#ff0000">arabic</font>**, that you may be able to understand (its meanings and its admonitions). &#8221;

From the ayah above and from many other ayaat in the Qur&#8217;an, we learn that Allah ta&#8217;ala chose the arabic language to convey His Deen.

When I personally began studying the language, I saw how deep, analytical and precise Arabic is. I compare it to the likes of an ocean; it has sweet water, if you enter it-you immediately &#8220;float&#8221; and it&#8217;s depth cannot be matched. SubhanAllah, I&#8217;m sure many of my brothers and sisters who have learned the language can agree with me that any english translation of the Qur&#8217;an cannot, in any way shape or form, do justice to the Qur&#8217;an. (ex: Alhamdulillahi Rabbil alamin can be translated, but it just does not have the same effect.)Indeed in this is a sign for us to reflect on. InshaAllah it should be all of our goals to master this language, so that we can comprehend, extract lessons and truly learn the book of our Rabb.

Now to the topic of this post&#8230;good ol&#8217; grammar! I know grammar (be it english, arabic, french, any language!) is not the most favorite subject for people. But there is one aspect of grammar that I think is so amazing and beautiful, I can go through it again and again. I&#8217;m talking about <u>_Mubaalagah_</u>.

Mubaaalagah