---
title: Eid Mubarak!
author: Ilm Seeker
type: post
date: 2007-10-12T22:00:47+00:00
excerpt: "Another Ramadan come and gone; may Allah accept it.  Those deeds you started--reading Qur'an, visiting the masjid every day, fasting all day--and those deeds you stopped, lying, backbiting, dating, music--this is what taqwa is.  Keep doing these things, and you will achieve success.  Be strong, and ask Allah to help you."
url: /2007/eid-mubarak-2007/
podPressPostSpecific:
  - 'a:6:{s:15:"itunes:subtitle";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:14:"itunes:summary";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:15:"itunes:keywords";s:17:"##WordPressCats##";s:13:"itunes:author";s:10:"##Global##";s:15:"itunes:explicit";s:2:"No";s:12:"itunes:block";s:2:"No";}'
categories:
  - Islam
  - News
  - Sawm
  - Tazkiyyah

---
So, another Ramadan has come and gone! 30 days of reading Qur&#8217;an and feeding the poor, 30 nights of Qiyaam-ul-Layl and Taraweeh and Tahajjud. And so, &#8216;Eid comes again.

Congratulations! You have been one of those lucky few who lived to receive this great blessing from Allah (سبحانه وتعالى), this chance to get <span class="gem">all your sins forgiven!</span> Because the Messenger of Allah (صلي الله عليه وسلم) said: &#8220;Whoever fasts during Ramadan out of sincere faith and hoping to attain Allah&#8217;s rewards, then _**all**_ his past sins will be forgiven.&#8221; [Saheeh Al-Bukhari]

So rejoice! Spend today with your family! And remember, Ramadan is [the excuse killer][1]. All of those things you started doing&#8211;praying in the masjid every day, fasting every now and then, reading Qur&#8217;an often, praying extra (nafl) prayers&#8211;<span class="gem">that&#8217;s taqwa. Keep doing those things.</span> And all those things you stopped doing&#8211;lying, cheating, backbiting, arguing, listening to music, wearing immodest clothes, boycotting your boyfriend or girlfriend&#8211;<span class="gem">that&#8217;s taqwa. Keep avoiding those things.</span> Forget about Shaytaan being on the loose, that&#8217;s just an excuse&#8211;be strong, and ask Allah to help you.

Brothers and sisters, remember, <span class="gem">you start with a clean slate after Ramadan! Don&#8217;t let the future be like the past!</span> Take a moment, right now, and decide on some changes that will, insha&#8217;allah, be for your akhira, your eternal life. Decide NOW to:

  * Be a **better son or daughter** to your parents
  * Be a better husband or wife to your spouse (if you&#8217;re married)
  * **Cut out at least three haraam activities** from your life, permanently, starting today
  * **Block, delete, and break contact** with non-mahrams of the opposite gender you have communication with&#8211;whether your boyfriend or girlfriend, that sister on facebook, or someone else.
  * **Ask Allah, As-Sittiyr, to cover your sins** and help you overcome them.

O Allah, make us among those people who benefit from every Ramadan, who have our sins forgiven and become better people for all time after that! Ameen ajma&#8217;een!

<span class="gem">&#8216;Eid Mubarak to you and your families, from Ilm Fruits!</span>

(P.S. If you&#8217;re interested, check out this [excellent Flash presentation][2] on &#8216;Eid&#8211;what to do and not do, and what it&#8217;s all about.)

 [1]: /ramadan-the-excuse-killer/
 [2]: http://www.outstandingmuslim.com/Eid101/engage.html