---
title: Tawaf 101
author: Ilm Seeker
type: post
date: 2008-01-25T22:08:19+00:00
excerpt: "What is tawaf, and how do you do it?  What are the best times to do tawaf?  Tawaf means to circle the Ka'bah in a state of wudoo.  You recite Qur'an, du'a, or dhikr.  Avoid hurting your brothers and sisters in Islam."
url: /2008/tawaf-101/
podPressPostSpecific:
  - 'a:6:{s:15:"itunes:subtitle";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:14:"itunes:summary";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:15:"itunes:keywords";s:17:"##WordPressCats##";s:13:"itunes:author";s:10:"##Global##";s:15:"itunes:explicit";s:2:"No";s:12:"itunes:block";s:2:"No";}'
categories:
  - Hajj
  - Ibadah
  - Islam

---
What is tawaf, how do you do it, and what&#8217;s the best way to go about it?

Tawaf, Islamically, means circling around the Ka&#8217;bah for Hajj in the way the Prophet (صلي الله عليه وسلم) did and told us to do. The requirements of tawaf are simple&#8211;be in a state of wudoo.

The mechanics of tawaf are:

  * You walk around the ka&#8217;bah, seven times
  * Start at the Black Stone corner (from outside, it has a green light); raise your hand towards the Black Stone and say &#8220;Allahu Akbar&#8221; (or, if you can reach it, touch the black stone and say Allahu Akbar)
  * For men, if possible, you walk quickly (_raml_, in Arabic) the first three times
  * Make du&#8217;a, recite Qur&#8217;an, or make dhikr as you walk.
  * Whenever you reach the Yemeni corner, make the du&#8217;a: _Rabbana aatiynaa fid-dunya hasanatan, wa fil-akhirati hasanatan, wa kinaa adhaaban-naar_ (O our Lord! Give us goodness in this life, goodness in the Akhira, and protect us from the Punishment of the Fire.)
  * Don&#8217;t push, jab, bite, or hurt anybody.
  * Once you&#8217;re done, drink some Zam-Zam, pour a little over your head, and pray two rakahs behind Maqama Ibrahim

Some tips to make your tawaf easier:

  * If you have family with you&#8211;your parents, uncles, sons, daughters, your spouse, your brothers, your sisters&#8211;**hang on to them!** Most people back off from trying to pass when they see people holding on to each other.
  * Aim for making tawaf on the second or third floor if there are too many people around.
  * The best time to make tawaf (in Hajj) is around midnight or 1am; the crowd is very sparse around that time. (Don&#8217;t even think about doing it right before or after Fajr&#8211;it&#8217;s _tooooo_ packed.)
  * If someone pushes you from behind, _turn and look at them_ (making sure to make eye contact). If they still persist, _step to the side_ to avoid them. If you can&#8217;t, turn and say &#8220;Sabr, akhi/ukhti&#8221; (patience, o my brother/sister).

And remember, **don&#8217;t injure anyone!** Hajj is supposed to be about patience, and if the crowd isn&#8217;t moving, pushing won&#8217;t make it go faster!

We ask Allah to make tawaf easy on all our brothers and sisters (ameen ya rabb!)