---
title: Dajjal
author: Student of Knowledge
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=603
podPressPostSpecific:
  - 'a:6:{s:15:"itunes:subtitle";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:14:"itunes:summary";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:15:"itunes:keywords";s:17:"##WordPressCats##";s:13:"itunes:author";s:10:"##Global##";s:15:"itunes:explicit";s:2:"No";s:12:"itunes:block";s:2:"No";}'
categories:
  - Islam

---
&#8220;Between time of the creation of Adam and the Resurrection Day, there is no trial more severe than the trial of Dajjal &#8221; (reference??)

Here are the quick facts:

  * There will be no land which will not be trampled by Dajjal (the Antichrist) but Makkah and Al-Madinah; and there will be no passage leading to them which will not be guarded by the angels, arranged in rows. Dajjal will appear in a barren place adjacent to Al-Madinah and the city will be shaken three times. Allah will expel from it every disbeliever and hypocrite
  * He is blind in one eye. The other eye looks like a swollen grape. On his forehead are the letters: (Ka-fa-ra (kafir))
  * He will give command to the sky and it will send its rain upon the earth and he will then send his command to the earth and it will grow vegetation. He would then walk through the waste land and say to it: \`Bring forth your treasures&#8217;, and the treasures will come out and follow him like swarms of bees.
  * He will have two rivers flowing. One will clearly look like water and the other will clearly look like blazing fire. This will be the delusion. The Prophet (S) said: throw yourself into the river of fire, for it is cold water.
  * He would claim to be God. No one has ever done that in the history of mankind
  * He is not the satellite, TV or other personalities that people claim.

How can you apply all of this to yourself:

  * Seek protection
  * Teach about Dajjal to your family members and others because one of the signs of the day of judgement is that people will stop talking about dajjal
  * Now you know how big of fitnah this would be, look at other things the Prophet has compared Dajjal with: 
      * Aboo Sa\`eed reported that the Messenger of Allah (saaw) came to us while we were discussing about Dajjaal and said, &#8220;Should I not inform you of that which I fear for you even more than the dangers of Dajjaal? It is the hidden Shirk; A person stands to pray, and he beautifies his prayer because he seeas the people looking at him.
      * The Messenger of Allah (saaw) said: the trial of the Dajjaal is equal to the trial of the grave. (source?)

(some notes added by Ilm Seeker)