---
title: 'Reminder Series: They will surely Regret'
author: Abd al-Ahad
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=1518
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - yes
podPressPostSpecific:
  - 'a:6:{s:15:"itunes:subtitle";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:14:"itunes:summary";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:15:"itunes:keywords";s:17:"##WordPressCats##";s:13:"itunes:author";s:10:"##Global##";s:15:"itunes:explicit";s:2:"No";s:12:"itunes:block";s:2:"No";}'

---
Allah subhanahu wa ta&#8217;ala has categorized mankind into three categories of people: 1) believers 2) disbelievers 3) hypocrites.

Believers are those people who have firm faith in Allah and His Messenger sallalahu alayhi wasalam. They are those who struggle with their souls, their bodies, their wealth, and their lives to fulfil the orders of Allah and follow the guidance of rasool Allah sallalahu alayhi wasalam. These are the people of Paradise.

The disbelievers are those people who hear the true message of Islam and still rejected it. They are those who have no doubt about the truth of Islam. They understand the concepts and conceptualize the reality of what Islam is preaching, but due to their own whims and desires they reject the truth for some other lowly wordly pursuit. These are the people of Hellfire.

And Allah says about the inhabitants of Paradise and Hellfire in Surah Hashr:

#### Not equal are the dwellers of the Fire and the dwellers of the Paradise. It is the dwellers of Paradise that will be successful

The third category of people, the hypocrites, are a people whose beliefs and actions contradict eachother. They are a people who show themselves to be Muslims, following and adhering to the visual rituals of Islam. However, these people are true enemies of Islam; they hate the Muslims and Islam within their hearts and work against them internally. Allah says about them in surah Baqarah:

#### And of mankind, there are some (hypocrites) who say: &#8220;We believe in Allah and the Last Day&#8221; while in fact they believe not. They (think to) deceive Allah and those who believe, while they only deceive themselves, and perceive (it) not! In their hearts is a disease (of doubt and hypocrisy) and Allah has increased their disease. A painful torment is theirs because they used to tell lies.

The greatest blessings that Allah subhanahu wa ta&#8217;ala has in store for the believers in Jannah is that they will finally get to see His face. After worshipping Him subhanahu wa ta&#8217;ala  without ever seeing Him, the believers will finally see the Face of Allah. Truly, the hearts of the believers melt and their eyes become teary at the thought of being able to see Allah, the One they love. On the opposite side of the coin, the worst punishment for disbelievers will be that they will never get to see Allah subhanahu wa ta&#8217;ala. However, the worst punishment will