---
title: Shukr and Taqwa
author: Abd al-Ahad
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=2237
podPressPostSpecific:
  - 'a:6:{s:15:"itunes:subtitle";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:14:"itunes:summary";s:15:"##PostExcerpt##";s:15:"itunes:keywords";s:17:"##WordPressCats##";s:13:"itunes:author";s:10:"##Global##";s:15:"itunes:explicit";s:2:"No";s:12:"itunes:block";s:2:"No";}'
categories:
  - Islam

---
فَاتَّقُوا اللَّهَ لَعَلَّكُمْ تَشْكُرُونَ
  
So fear Allah much [abstain from all kinds of sins and evil deeds which He has forbidden and love Allah much, perform all kinds of good deeds which He has ordained] that you may be grateful.
  
[3:123]

Taqwa is mentioned as a pre-condition to being grateful. Meaning, one cannot truly be grateful to Allah if or she does not first exhibit the quality of taqwa. Taqwa leads to shukr.

Taqwa &#8211; to place a barrier between yourself and the punishment of Allah. In other words, it is to utilize your god-given faculties to protect yourself from those things which would bring about the punishment of Allah.

Shukr &#8211; to acknowledge the blessings of Allah upon ones lips, to have love for Allah in ones heart and to submit ones limbs in obedience and submission to Allah.

How so? When you stop your eyes from glancing at something they shouldn&#8217;t be, this is taqwa. This constant awareness is a catapult for one to reflect upon those very eyes that Allah has blessed him/her with and to thank Allah for them, to love Allah for them, to utilize them to look at good. It may also cause one to reflect upon the guidance that Allah blessed themselves with, the pure way of life that Allah has them with, the fact that Allah has kept their eyes pure, they proclaim shukr to Allah upon the tongue, love Allah in the heart for it, and continue utilizing those eyes to submit to Allah.

وَإِذْ تَأَذَّنَ رَبُّكُمْ لَئِن شَكَرْتُمْ لَأَزِيدَنَّكُمْ ۖ وَلَئِن كَفَرْتُمْ إِنَّ عَذَابِي لَشَدِيدٌ
  
And (remember) when your Lord proclaimed: &#8220;If you give thanks (by accepting Faith and worshipping none but Allah), I will give you more (of My Blessings), But if ye show ingratitude, truly My punishment is terrible indeed.&#8221;